>> Will Sentance: Now, we're getting
towards the final stretch, almost.
So, here, we had it,
we had our wonderful shared,
single saved version of our function and
our objects.
User 1, user 2, user 500 [SOUND] all had
access to it through the proto-chain.
Nope, through the proto-reference, as
a result of JavaScript prototype nature,
its prototype feature, its ability for
objects to connect to other objects.
So, when we don't find a function on
the given object, don't panic, head on up.
Okay, now, I wanna do something
interesting here, no bonus.
What if I want to confirm,
nothing's changed by the way, except for
now I'm not using increment.
I'm using this method,
this function hasOwnProperty.
What if we wanna confirm our
user1 has the property score?
This is interesting, hasOwnProperty here.
I presume hasOwnProperty is on
user1 as a property, Matt, is it?
>> Speaker 2: Yes, I mean,
there's nothing there for it.
>> Will Sentance: There's no property,
sorry,
no method called hasOwnProperty,
yeah, exactly.
It must be on user function store,
is it Todd?
>> Speaker 2: No, it's not.
>> Will Sentance: So
where is this function gonna come from?
It turns out people, that there is a big
old headline object in JavaScript,
we're gonna see exactly where it's
stored a little bit later on,
but for now
>> Will Sentance: There's a big old
headline object in JavaScript
called object.prototype.
We're gonna learn more about that
a little bit later, there it is.
I should do it in a different color,
honestly.
But I'm gonna, instead just kind of, and
it has a bunch of useful functions
that are gonna be available to, dear.
They're gonna be available
to all of our objects.
But how?
Well because, hey, you won't believe it.
But all objects in JavaScript,
not just how user 1 and
user 2, where we set our proto value,
all objects in JavaScript
have a proto property.
A default one, that defaults to linking
to, you wanna take a guess to where Matt?
>> Speaker 2: The object
>> Will Sentance: To this object.prototype
object.
I'm not gonna probably draw the arrow,
am I?
But let's just do a little star.
This user function stores is
gonna link down to this object.
The object.prototype object, and
what do you bet's in there, Matt?
What function do you bet's in there?
>> Speaker 2: hasOwnProperty.
>> Will Sentance: hasOwnProperty,
he's spot on,
hasOwnProperty, super useful I guess.
Such that,
when I run user1.hasOwnProperty,
and execute it with score as my argument.
Kayla, where do I look for user 1?
>> Speaker 3: In global.
>> Will Sentance: In
global will I find it?
Yeah.
Then I look for
hasOwnProperty on that object.
Do I find it on user 1?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Will Sentance: Definitely not,
not there.
Do I panic?
Where does JavaScript prototypal nature
mean that the interpreter is gonna go and
look next, up to?
>> Speaker 3: The user function-
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic,
maybe hasOwnProperty's here.
Is increment, is No.
Do we panic?
No, here do we go look, what hidden
property that we're gonna look at, Kayla?
>> Speaker 3: The prototype.
>> Will Sentance: The proto property,
yeah, yeah.
Don't worry, we'll see the difference, but
the proto property, which is a link to-
>> Speaker 3: Object.proto.
>> Will Sentance: And
what do we find there?
>> Speaker 3: hasOwn.
>> Will Sentance: hasOwnProperty, and
we grab its code, and we execute it.
What we're actually doing with our
object.create is kinda taking control
of what we put in that proto.
Because all objects by default,
their proto,
as soon as they're created gets
a link to object.prototype.
We'd have taken control of that, but
don't panic, we don't lose access
to this stuff down here,
because it is a chain all the way up.
To the point that I kinda
want to show the line,
just so you know it's a chain, right?
It's a chain,
>> Will Sentance: It's a chain all
the way up to our headline,
Object.prototype.
This object also has a proto property.
No, but don't panic.
Anyone take a guess given this is, I'm
just gonna tell you the top of the chain.
What this might have as its value for
proto?
Dan?
>> Speaker 2: Under naturalised.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
actually very close but null, yeah,
it's like we're done now,
there's no further up the chain, okay?
But I'm not going to go into this in
greater detail than that, but if you do
wanna know all the intricacies of that,
go watch the object oriented hard parts.
Really [LAUGH] or people's talks on that,
go parts on that,
we go into in much more detail.
Especially related to how arrays and
functions also had a big collection of
shared functions they
can use related to this.
Okay, there is another thing
I want to talk about though.
Yes, what if you wanna confirm our
user's has the property score?
We can use the hasOwnProperty method.
But where is it?
Is it on user 1?
No.
All of us have a proto property by default
which defaults a lead to a big object,
object.prototype,
full of somewhat, useful functions.
We can access it via user function store's
proto property, the chain goes up.